---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/sacred-truces/please-pass-the-salt/"}
---


In the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus referred to his followers as the “salt of the earth”. The apostle Paul also encouraged Christians to “let your conversation be always full of grace, seasoned with salt” (Colossians 4:6). And I’ve heard about people putting salt in a wound, and I know it stings, and stuff like that. So I did a little more research on it. It’s times like these, where you HAVE to acknowledge there is a God because everything works in harmony. Everything can end up pointing back to stuff in the Bible and ultimately to God. Like – SALT. Check it out:

SALT FACT: Many micro organisms cannot live in an overly salty environment. If you put salt on a slug, it kind of evaporates. The hypertonic solution sucks all of the fluid out of the body and it dies.

> CHRISTIAN APPLICATION: hmmmm Think about that one for a minute. Think of salt as the things we communicate, things we believe, things we see in others, things we say to others. I guess that tells us that we need to be careful WHO we pour our salt on. As Christians, we don’t get to just go and dump our salt on whomever we please. We need to allow the Holy Spirit to guide us, He will let us know if that specific person is ready for our Christian salt. On the other hand, it could tell us something about ourselves and how we react when salt is poured on us. If every time a brother or sister in Christ tries to give us a little salt we get all bent out of shape and offended, then we better check ourselves. We can’t live without fellowship, encouragement, and admonishment from fellow Christians and the Holy Spirit. Truth may hurt sometimes, but it shouldn’t kill us.

SALT FACT: Sodium chloride (Salt) is sometimes used as a cheap, safe, effective method of food preservation historically; as it draws water out of bacteria through osmotic pressure preventing them from reproducing and causing food to spoil. Even though more effective desiccants are available, few are safe for humans to ingest. Since at least medieval times, people have used salt as a cleansing agent rubbed on household surfaces. It is also used in many brands of shampoo, and popularly to de-ice driveways and patches of ice. It also lowers the freezing point.

> CHRISTIAN APPLICATION: Soooo, When salt is applied to the right things, it can help to preventing REPRODUCTION and SPOILING. Salt should be applied to SINS, not people. When we use it on the right SINS (never on people!) it could help get rid of them or it might just start a melting process that subsequently will take longer to refreeze. In other words, we might help them to see their sin and start a process where they move out of that sin. If used correctly, it can set up a situation where moving back into that sin will be less likely. We don’t get to choose what to apply the salt to, we need to check in the Bible to see where to use it. It isn’t about our wants and needs, it’s about God’s wants and needs.

SALT FACT: Chloride and sodium ions, the two major components of salt, are necessary for the survival of all known living creatures, including humans. Conversely, overconsumption of salt increases the risk of health problems, including high blood pressure.

> CHRISTIAN APPLICATION: LOL I think we all know what this tells us. We need to go a little easy on our salting or suffer the consequences. If we are continually having people become offended or upset by us, then we need to check how salty we have become. This doesn’t mean that one or two people are upset with us, that is more than likely an issue within them. This would be where you have several people at different times upset with you and something you have said or done. If we make numerous people’s blood pressure rise, then we are being way to salty.

SALT FACT: All four cationic electrolytes (sodium, potassium, magnesium, and calcium) are available in unrefined salt, as are other vital minerals needed for optimal bodily function. Too much or too little salt in the diet can lead to muscle cramps, dizziness, or even an electrolyte disturbance, which can cause severe, even fatal, neurological problems. The risk for disease due to insufficient or excessive salt intake varies because of biochemical individuality. Drinking too much water, with insufficient salt intake, puts a person at risk of water intoxication (hyponatremia).

> CHRISTIAN APPLICATION: mmmmmm So as part of the body, we need to make sure that we are not too Salty. It’s a balancing act. Knowing when, what, and how much to salt. Too much – not enough – either way, it’s fatal. If we are leaving a path of hurting people behind us, then our mixture isn’t right. More than likely we are salting based on our own feelings and not on those directed by the Holy Spirit. Another thing is dumping our salt on people who really aren’t filled with the Holy Spirit (living water) can be fatal as well. We should save most of our salt for fellow brother’s and sister’s in Christ, not those in the world. The reverse of that is that if we are filled with the Spirit, we can not be upset when fellow believers try to offer us some salt from time to time. It is how we grow, how we survive. Too much Spirit with little salt is just as fatal as too much salt with very little Spirit.

SALT FACT: Sea salt (an unrefined form of salt made by evaporating sea water) is often sold for use as a condiment. Sea salt contains trace amounts of other minerals which are removed in the refining process. Sea salt is produced through evaporation of seawater, usually with little processing, which leaves behind some trace minerals and elements depending on its water source. These insignificant amounts of minerals add flavor and color to sea salt, which also comes in a variety of coarseness levels. Table salt is mined from underground salt deposits. Table salt is more heavily processed to eliminate trace minerals and usually contains an additive to prevent clumping. Most table salt also has added iodine, an essential nutrient that appears naturally in minute amounts in sea salt. Sea salt generally is far from pure. Iodized table salt — it comes from underground mines and is treated with aluminum to prevent caking. (Sometimes it’s even bleached to make it whiter.

> CHRISTIAN APPLICATION: So, salt, is better when it come from nature with no additives. If we are going to use our Salt, it’s better if it come from the Holy Spirit and not from us. The more we dilute and add to what the Spirit is trying to do, the more we will mess things up and the less nourishing and beneficial it will be to the other person.

SALT FACT: Salt, an essential chemical for life and well-being, is ironically the combination of two of the most deadly chemicals known to man—sodium, an unstable metal that will burst into flame if exposed to air or water, and chlorine, one of the deadliest known gases.

> CHRISTIAN APPLICATION: Yeaaah, just another reason to make sure it’s from the Holy Spirit. We all know that when we use our salt in our own way, explosions and deadly gases happen! Guess that’s a sign to look for. If there are a lot of explosions when you’re using your salt, it’s not mixed right. On the other hand, if you are one that explodes every time someone puts a little salt on you, well, maybe you’re not mixed right.

SALT FACT: Although the famous expression “putting salt in the wound” has a negative connotation because salt tends to sting when placed in an open sore or cut, salt is beneficial in the long run. Because salt tends to be abrasive, it is best that you dilute it in a water solution. Salt water is most effective when 1 Tbsp. of salt is added to 1 cup of warm water. Stir the salt into the water until it dissolves, and then soak your wounds in it. Although salt-water treatment is not ideal as the primary treatment for all wounds, it is an excellent initial treatment to disinfect a wound. Do not use a salt-water bath if your wound is bleeding. You may dab your wound gently with salt water, but do not soak it until your wound has clotted completely. Treating a wound in salt water is an excellent preventative measure against germs and infection, but it will not heal all wounds. Your wound may require stitches or other medical attention before soaking your wound in salt water will be effective. When in doubt, always contact your doctor and ask her what to do about your injury.

CHRISTIAN APPLICATION: So what is this telling us as Christians? Think of salt as your thoughts, beliefs, advice, Bible knowledge, etc. Let’s look at that again,

Although expressing our thoughts, beliefs, advice, and Bible knowledge (salt) to someone who is not a Christian, or someone who is hurting (a wound) can sting, it is beneficial in the long run. Because our thoughts, beliefs, advice, and Bible knowledge (salt) can be abrasive, we need to make sure it is diluted by God. It is most effective when there is a lot more Holy Spirit (water) than there is our thoughts, beliefs, advice, and Bible knowledge (salt) in the mixture. Make sure that every part of your needs and wants have been dissolved before approaching and talking with a non Christian or person who is hurting (a wound is soaked). Sometimes, sharing our thoughts, beliefs, advice, and Bible knowledge (Salt-water) is not ideal for every person (wound), but can be a good initial treatment as a eye opener, or attention getter (disinfectant). Don’t try to share your thoughts, beliefs, advice, and Bible knowledge (apply the salt) to someone who is really hurting or experiencing a fresh hurt (an open, bleeding wound), it needs different treatment. Treat that type of wound gently, maybe a little dab here and there, but don’t dump on it, use lots of love, kindness, and caring. Make sure you wait until you can see some healing in the wound before you try to apply your thoughts, beliefs, advice, and Bible knowledge (any kind of salt). Rinsing an open, bleeding wound with the love of Christ and the healing of the Holy Spirit (with clean, fresh water) is the best thing.) After the wound shows signs of healing, then sharing your thoughts, beliefs, advice, and Bible knowledge (treating with salt) can be an excellent help in preventing more hurt, more wrong actions, and more sinning (germs and infections from infecting the wound). When in doubt about how to treat the wound, ask God (the doctor), see what He says to do about the injury.

So if you are wanting to become a more mature Christian or you are professing to be a mature Christian – you should be saying – please pass that salt!

Comments welcome!

List of Sources

[Salt – Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salt)

[Sodium Chloride – Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sodium_chloride)

[Treating Wounds with Salt](http://www.ehow.com/how-does_4898741_treating-wounds-salt-water.html)

[Mayo Clinic](http://www.mayoclinic.com/health/sea-salt/AN01142)



Originally published on WordPress https://calltoceasefire.wordpress.com/2023/09/23/please-pass-the-salt/