---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/torah-portions/2025-10-24-shabbat-reading/","tags":["#TorahPortions","nothome"]}
---

#### Over All Study Notes:
- God's covenant faithfulness in calling His people back from self-reliant wandering and sin, through humbling judgment, to restored fellowship and protection.

- divine initiative → human rebellion → judgment → repentance → restoration
# Genesis 31:3-32:2 
#### God Calls the Wanderer Home
## [[_The Scrolls/1. Torah (Law of Moses)/01 - Genesis/Gen-31\|Gen-31]]
#### My Study Notes: [[Yada Yada Pauses/01 Gen-31 Yada Yada\|01 Gen-31 Yada Yada]]
- Translation in verse 20 is very misleading: deceived - tricked - literal meaning: “stole the heart/mind of Laban” Idiomatic Hebrew for deceiving someone by concealing intentions.
- Jacob didn't leave of his own accord, YHWH told him to leave. 
- Interesting the idols in essence can be used as witnesses.
- Rebecca, Leah, and Jacob - three witnesses.
## [[_The Scrolls/1. Torah (Law of Moses)/01 - Genesis/Gen-32\|Gen-32]]

<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><a class="markdown-embed-link" href="/the-scrolls/1-torah-law-of-moses/01-genesis/gen-32/#v1" aria-label="Open link"><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="24" height="24" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" class="svg-icon lucide-link"><path d="M10 13a5 5 0 0 0 7.54.54l3-3a5 5 0 0 0-7.07-7.07l-1.72 1.71"></path><path d="M14 11a5 5 0 0 0-7.54-.54l-3 3a5 5 0 0 0 7.07 7.07l1.71-1.71"></path></svg></a><div class="markdown-embed">



###### v1 
Jacob went on his way, and the angels [[Gate of Wisdom/Beings/Messenger\|Messenger]] of God met him. 


</div></div>

<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><a class="markdown-embed-link" href="/the-scrolls/1-torah-law-of-moses/01-genesis/gen-32/#v2" aria-label="Open link"><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="24" height="24" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" class="svg-icon lucide-link"><path d="M10 13a5 5 0 0 0 7.54.54l3-3a5 5 0 0 0-7.07-7.07l-1.72 1.71"></path><path d="M14 11a5 5 0 0 0-7.54-.54l-3 3a5 5 0 0 0 7.07 7.07l1.71-1.71"></path></svg></a><div class="markdown-embed">



###### v2 
When he saw them, Jacob said, "This is God's army." He called the name of that place Mahanaim. 


</div></div>

#### My Study Notes
- Note the words translated angels of god/elohim - [[Gate of Wisdom/Beings/Messenger\|Messenger]] PLURAL construct form - more than one.
- Manhanaim = Two Camps
# Jeremiah 30:10-16 
#### The Promise: Same Pattern for Exiled Israel
## [[_The Scrolls/2. Nevi'im (Prophets)/24 - Jeremiah/Jer-30\|Jer-30]]

# Micah 6:3 - Micah 7:20  
#### The Lawsuit, Lament, and Final Triumph
## [[_The Scrolls/2. Nevi'im (Prophets)/33 - Micah/Micah-06\|Micah-06]]
#### Study Note: [[Yada Yada Pauses/33 Micah-06 Yada Yada\|33 Micah-06 Yada Yada]]

<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><a class="markdown-embed-link" href="/the-scrolls/2-nevi-im-prophets/33-micah/micah-06/#v8" aria-label="Open link"><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="24" height="24" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" class="svg-icon lucide-link"><path d="M10 13a5 5 0 0 0 7.54.54l3-3a5 5 0 0 0-7.07-7.07l-1.72 1.71"></path><path d="M14 11a5 5 0 0 0-7.54-.54l-3 3a5 5 0 0 0 7.07 7.07l1.71-1.71"></path></svg></a><div class="markdown-embed">



###### v8 
He has shown you, O man, what is good. What does Yahweh require of you, but to act justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with your God? [^1]


</div></div>

- Mountain, Hills, Earth are witnesses
- The people of Israel chose to follow Omri and Ahab and their ways instead of Yah's ways. 
- This chapter presents God’s case against Israel (or Judah) for their unfaithfulness, calling for repentance and outlining true worship (justice, mercy, humility). It concludes with judgment for their sins but hints at God’s mercy.
## [[_The Scrolls/2. Nevi'im (Prophets)/33 - Micah/Micah-07\|Micah-07]]
#### Study Notes: [[Yada Yada Pauses/33 Micah-07 Yada Yada\|33 Micah-07 Yada Yada]]
- Just as Yah forgives and restores Israel because of his promise and covenants with Jacob and Abraham. And because of the lamenting and confession made by Micah. He will forgive and restore through Yeshua if there is repentance and changing of ways. 
- This chapter features a lament over Israel’s moral decay, a confession of sin, hope for restoration, and praise for God’s mercy. It includes prophecies of judgment and future restoration, particularly for Jerusalem/Zion.

# James 4:1-12 
#### New Covenant Application: The Pattern for Believers Today
## [[_The Scrolls/4. The Gospels and The Apostles/59 - James/James-04\|James-04]]

#### My Study Notes: [[Yada Yada Pauses/59 James-04 Yada Yada\|59 James-04 Yada Yada]]
- James 4:5 paraphrases the jealous love of YHWH for His covenant people, now applied to the indwelling Spirit’s resistance to worldly friendship (James 4:4).
- The Spirit is living inside BUT is ignored for our own pleasures. So the Spirit is jealous.
- The Devil is our own pleasures not another being of any kind. 
- Judging is about condemning wrongly - about speaking out against someone based out of our law or our judgement and not using Yah's law, what he has deemed as wrong. 
- The purpose of two or three witness is to [[Gate of Wisdom/Judge\|Judge]] and establish a matter. In Micah, YHWH uses the mountains and the hills as his witnesses.

# Psalm 26
## [[_The Scrolls/3. Ketuvim (Writings)/19 - Psalm/Ps-26\|Ps-26]]